index.html
Page -1-4
FACULTY OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN INFORMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE
END OF SEMESTER EXAMINATION
 ICS 3102: MOBILE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT
DATE: 17th July 2018 Time: 2 Hours
Instructions
1. This examination consists of FIVE questions.
2. Answer Question ONE (COMPULSORY) and any other TWO questions.
Question One (30 marks)
a) Differentiate between native, hybrid and web apps. (6mks)
b) You have been approached by a start-up to develop a mobile application to test 
the viability of their idea. After assessing their requirements, you realize the 
application would not be complex and they would like to have both on Android and 
Apple platform. With the understanding of the types of applications, their strengths 
and weaknesses, what type of application between native and cross-platform would 
you recommend to the start-up? Support your argument with two advantages of 
your preferred choice as well two disadvantages of your non-preferred choice. 
(5mks)
c) The AndroidManifest.xml file is a significant file that all applications need. Define 
what the Android Manifest file is and outline four functions of the manifest file in an 
Android application. (6mks)
d) The RecyclerView class is a more advanced and flexible version of ListView. In 
order to display data to a recycler view, there are six parts that must be included. 
Describe them. (6mks)
Page -2-4
e) Professional Android App Development conventions dictate that no resources 
(strings, colours, dimensions) are to be hardcoded. Instead, these resources are 
defined in a strings.xml, colors.xml files, and called by their name attribute in a 
given layout. Write code snippets for a login page with two text fields and a button 
to demonstrate the declaration of a string and a colour in a strings.xml and 
colors.xml file, then a corresponding layout that calls the given resource. (7mks)
Question Two (15 marks)
a) Buttons are user interface controls that respond to click events from a user to 
perform specific actions. In android, there are two ways in which a click event can 
be wired to an android application. Using code samples, illustrate how a button can 
be clicked to start another activity in android. Include both xml code snippets and 
java code snippets for each approach. (8mks)
(hint: use an android:onClick attribute for one method and a click listener for the other) 
b) Using appropriate examples, differentiate between explicit and Implicit intent types 
in android (3mks)
c) Android classifies permissions as normal or dangerous. Differentiate the two using 
appropriate examples of each type of permission. (4mks)
Question Three (15 marks)
a) What is the key difference between a service and an activity? (1mk)
b) Using an example of a popular mobile application, define a service in Android and 
state how a service has been used in the mobile application (4mks)
c) A notification in Android is created using the NotificationCompat.Builder class. 
This class enables a developer to specify the components of the notification. Using 
a code snippet, illustrate how you could define a notification to remind a user that 
dinner is ready. 
Page -3-4
Hint (assign a small icon, text for a title, and the notification message) (5mks) 
d) Android allows a developer to assign a priority level to each notification to 
influence how the Android system will deliver it. Using appropriate examples, 
describe the uses of the five priority constants a developer could define in their app 
(5mks)
Question Four (15 marks)
a) How does Android know which components are in the application? (1mk)
A. By type
B. The manifest
C. They are registered when Main() is called
D. They are created when Oncreate() is called
b) Of the many storage options, using a SQLite database is one of the most versatile, 
and straightforward option to implement. Illustrate two scenarios where SQLite 
would be ideal as a storage option (4mks)
c) State a key difference between the following selection controls used in android. 
Using XML code snippets, illustrate how the two components could be added to a 
UI layout (10mks)
 
Question Five (15 marks)
a) Define the four component types of an android application (4mks)
b) Which tool do you use to create a new emulator? (1mk)
Page -4-4
A. Android Device Monitor
B. AVD Manager
C. SDK Manager
D. Theme Editor
c) The image represents a simple signup interface of an Android application. Write the 
appropriate xml code to create that simple layout, including attributes, input types, 
string references for the hints contained within the text area. (10 marks)
